{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset1 Segoe UI Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\f0\fs48\lang9 ABOUT THE AUTHOR : \ulnone Chetan Bhagat\fs40 -\par
\fs32 Chetan Bhagat is an Investment-banker turned novelist. He has so far written 5 blockbuster novels, some of which have been adapted into major Bollywood films. Apart from being a writer, Bhagat is also a motivational speaker and columnist. He is known for the simplicity of his expressions which has endeared him to millions of readers but, admittedly, he doesn't get literary praise from critics. This book represents his first foray into non-fiction literary territory.\par
Bhagat's screenwriting efforts have included the dramedies Kai Po Che! (2013), 2 States (2014) and the action-superhero movie Kick (2015). He won the Filmfare Award for Best Screenplay for Kai Po Che! at the 59th Filmfare Awards in January 2014.\par
\ul\fs48\lang1033 AUTHOR'S REVIEW\fs32 -\par
\ulnone\lang9 Some people call him Rockstar Author, while some say India\rquote s most Loved Author, some other call him \ldblquote One of Most Influential Person\rdblquote  (Ranked 21 by TIME magazine in 2010m in Artiste category), and he is often considered as a Youth Icon. But does everyone truly love this person? Not really, critics hate his writing style; his articles in various newspapers are considered as \lquote Blabber of a Lesser Known\rquote , and his novels are often tagged as \lquote Bubblegum Literature\rquote  and even once he was called 'Rakhi Sawant of literature'. However, he shuts them all by his polite smile and a simple sentence \ldblquote It\rquote s a lazy criticism\rdblquote . \par
The author stated that the novel is based on the "rampant corruption" apparent in the Indian youth educational system, with the choice of Varanasi as a setting emerging through "a special connection to the city" following his visit.[3] He further said "it is one of our oldest cities, and people there now have modern aspirations. I thought the contrast would be interesting. The city also has a lot of character.[4]\par
\par
\ul\fs48\lang1033 THEME OF THE BOOK-\par
\ulnone\fs32\lang9 Chetan Bhagat visits GangaTech College in Varanasi to deliver a speech. There, he meets Gopal, the 26-year-old protagonist who has achieved great success in life surrounding himself with lots of money and yet has an unhappy life .The same day, Gopal invites Bhagat for a drink which Bhagat agrees. After an overdose of alcohol Gopal is been admitted in the hospital and this is where he shares his own past with Bhagat.\par
Three childhood friends Gopal ,Ragav and Aarthi has different aspirations in life with Gopal wanting to become rich ,Ragav wanting a global political change  and Aarthi wants to become an airhostess .\par
\ul\fs48\lang1033 READER'S REVIEW\fs32 -\par
\ulnone\lang9 Revolution 2020 is Chetan Bhagat\rquote s fifth book and most criticized book .The story has the usual and his own way of handling social stuffs and this time it is Corruption.\par
Revolution 2020 as the name says has very little than what the name actually says but still Chetan Bhagat taking steps to provide youthful solution of reducing corruption is appreciated. What the book lacks is the obvious fun factor when you compared to his other previous books like 2 States involving a racist humour.\par
In this book Revolution 2020, the writer has very well portrait the life of a student who went to another city for studies but failed in his education. The author has clearly the rotten Indian education system and corruption that exists till date.  Gopal\rquote s cribbing about not getting a good enough rank is the fate of Indian Education system and most of us would have crossed that pace in our life. This is where our fate of our life is chosen by the ranks we get than we choosing it.\par
This book follows the story of two friends separated by their ambitions and passions yet connected by their love for the same girl. While Gopal, who has experienced the harsh realities of life due to poverty aspires to become rich, his friend Raghav is a boy from a well-off family who desires to "revolutionize" India by fighting corruption.\par
Aarti and Gopal have been childhood friends, and share a deep but platonic relationship. As teenagers, Gopal pushes Aarti for more, but she later reveals that she was not ready for anything. Gopal gets a low ranking in the AIEEE exams while Raghav is among the toppers. Gopal moves to another city (Kota), to join reputed coaching classes to help with his ranking. Raghav becomes a celebrity in the town after he passes the Indian Institute of Technology entrance exam. Aarti falls for Raghav during Gopal's absence. Aarti and Gopal chat online, and Aarti reveals her relationship to Gopal, who is heartbroken. He studies hard but gets a low ranking in the AIEEE exam for the second time. His father dies shortly after. Raghav decides to become a journalist and pursue a career in a newspaper publishing house.\par
Meanwhile, Gopal is contacted by a politician who wishes to build an engineering college on the highly valuable land that Gopal's family owns. Gopal agrees to the deal, and joins the system of corruption in India in order to build the college with the politician's black money. He is tired of "giving white envelopes" to officials but has no other choice. Raghav, now a journalist, exposes the corruption-funded college and is eventually fired from the newshouse. Raghav starts his own newspaper, Revolution 2020, to "change the world" and expose the corrupt system in India. After another expose, Raghav's newspaper is shut down by politicians and thugs, and he loses almost everything.\par
Raghav is still passionate about his activism and forgets about Aarti. They are still unmarried. Aarti and Gopal reconnect and often meet after work in coffee shops and other places, unbeknownst to Raghav. Gopal books a hotel room in the same hotel that Aarti works. Gopal seduces Aarti who returns his love, giving in to years of suppressed feelings. Aarti falls in love with Gopal, and begins to cheat on Raghav .Gopal then decides to disclose to Raghav that him and Aarti are a couple.Gopal goes to Raghavs office but a chance encounter with a poor farmer and his kid who had come to Raghav for help shakes him up and he realizes the folly of money,power and wealth. He decides to let go of Aarti perhaps realizing they were never meant to be together and Raghav would always remain Aartis love. He invites two prostitutes as a part of his birthday surprize and ensures Aarti witnesses it, making her hate him forever. He anonymously helps Raghav get a job, and suggests he become a politician (MLA) to bring about the "revolution" he desired. Aarti and Raghav get married.\par
Gopal becomes a rich and successful businessman, but is still heartbroken over Aarti. Despite sacrificing his lifelong love to bring about the "revolution", Gopal still doubts whether he is a "good man".\par
Revolution 2020 is the story of three childhood friends: Gopal, Raghav, and Aarthi. The story is setup in the holy-city of Varanasi. Gopal and Raghav are schoolmates from the childhood and share the same bench in school. Aarthi is also from the same class. Gopal loves Aarthi from the school days.\par
The story\rquote s narrator is Gopal. I am not going to tell you the entire story and be a suspense spoiler.\par
Gopal comes from a filmy-Indian-middle-class background. Raghav is from an almost well to do family, where as Aarathi comes from a kind of bureaucratic and political family. Three of them have their own ambitions in life. Gopal wants to be a rich man, Raghav wants to change the world, Aarthi wants to become an air hostess.\par
After the failure in getting through JEE and AIEEE exams, Gopal is forced by his father to repeat the exams next year. But Raghav secures a good rank and joins the top college in Varanasi. Aarthi falls in love with Raghav.\par
What happens when Gopal returns to Varanasi after his one year stint at cracking the entrance exams is the main part of the story. Apart from losing his love, he couldn\rquote t find a seat in engineering to fulfill his father\rquote s dream.\par
How Gopal chooses corruption as an aid to become a successful person while Raghav tries to change the world(read as India) with his revolutionary ideals is what the middle pages of the book are all about.\par
In the ending, things kind of change though, and you will be left to yourself to wonder who is right and who is wrong. Except for a faint hint in the end, Chetan doesn\rquote t really judge what Gopal does is good or bad.\par
\par
\ul\lang1033\par
\fs48 INTRESTING PART-\fs32\par
\ulnone\f1\lang9\u9758?\f0  Love makes us do stupid things.\par
\par
\f1\u9758?\f0  Love, officially, is nothing but a bitch.\par
\par
\f1\u9758?\f0  (#Bansal) Students and teachers strode about in a purposeful manner as if they were going to launch satellites in space.\par
\par
\f1\u9758?\f0  Why does girls give confusing signals?\par
\par
\f1\u9758?\f0  Happens. We are losers. We don't get things easily. Marks,ranks,girls- nothing is easy for us.\par
\par
\f1\u9758?\f0  Sometimes the only way to get rid of an unpleasant feeling is to replace it with another unpleasant feeling.\par
\par
\f1\u9758?\f0  Of course you could be one of those naturally talented students who never have to study much. But most of us are not,courtesy our parents' mediocre genes. Ironically, these same same parents who donated these dumb genes take the longest time to understand that their child is not Einstein's clone.\par
\par
\f1\u9758?\f0  I wanted to tell her she hadn't spoken to me for three months. However girl gets extremely upset if you give them evidence contrary to their belief.\par
\par
\f1\u9758?\f0  She gave me an understanding nod. But she could never understand that losers, even if they do not have a brain, have a heart.\par
\par
\f1\u9758?\f0  When you screw up someone's life, the least you can do is leave the person alone. \par
\par
\f1\u9758?\f0  It's amazing to be in love (but) only when the other person loves you back. \par
\par
\f1\u9758?\f0  Life is a bitch when the only women you can think of belongs to someone else.\par
\par
\f1\u9758?\f0  I didn't know what to say to that. Girls can come up with the simplest of message that have the most complex meanings. \par
\par
\f1\u9758?\f0  Girls are contradictory. They will say they like communication, but on certain topics they clam up. If they like you, they would prefer you sense it rather than make them say it. \par
\par
\f1\u9758?\f0  Girls don't like to discuss intimate moments,especially if you probe them. However, they also get upset if you don't refer to the moments at all.\par
\par
\fs22\par
}
 